Now that we've learned how to
interpret correlations between
variables using a couple
different plots,
let's learn how I was able to create
these plots in the first place.
So let's move over to Ultrex and examine
how we are able to create a workflow to
build these correlation values
between our different variables.
Over on Ultrex, the first thing we're
going to do is use an input data tool
to go grab our data set.
So we bring in the input data tool
towards the configuration menu in
the drop down menu and
go to our ChurnData.yxdb file.
The first thing I want to do is
look at the preview menu to view.
What different fields and what does my
data look like inside of this data set.
So it looks like we have some
information about each of the customers.
So what state they're in, how long
they've been a customer, phone number,
area code,
do they have an international plan or
not as well as some call history level,
so aggregated up to the customer level.
So things like how many total
daytime calls do they have?
How many total daytime minutes
do they use the phone for?
Evening, night, international, etc.
And then at the far right hand
side we have this churnfield and
this is what we're trying to understand.
If they do churn,
which is a true value or
they do not churn which
is a false value.
So what I want to do now,
is I want to determine the correlation
between our different variables.
So between this churn field,
and all of these fields, and
as well as these fields
within each other.
So to do this, we're going to use
an association analysis tool,
which is found inside of our
data investigation category.
So I bring in an association
analysis tool.
And there's three different
configuration options and
selections we need to make.
The first one's deciding if
we want to target a field for
more detailed Analysis.
And in this example, we're trying to
understand that churn field more, so,
yes, we do have a target field that
we want to understand more about.
So let's check on this.
Then we state what that target
field is which is our churn field.
Then over here, they asked us something
about the target level of interest.
This is going to be, do we want to
understand more about the true or
the falses or the yeses or
the nos or the ones or
the zeros, don't focus on this too much.
The only thing that this is going to
mean is basically do we want to have
positive correlations
with true values or
negative correlations with true values?
But don't focus on this quite too much.
The second main option that we have
inside this association analysis tool
is determining what fields and what
variables do we want to possibly add
to this model and to determine the
correlations of between each other and
as well between the target variable and
these potential predicted variables.
And for our examples we are going to
just simply select the all for now.
The third and last option is we have to
choose of what measure of association
are we going to judges
on correlation of,
of it could be Pearson's,
Spearman's or Hoeffting's.
As you remember in the previous
sections I mentioned that we're
only going to focus on Pearson for
this example, so
we'll just keep it at
default as Pearson.
The next thing I want to do is bring
out a browse tool after the R or report
output and then another browse after
the I or interactive browse output.
I'm now going to kick off this workflow
and then we can review the results next.
Let me first grab that report output.
By maximizing it, down it and
drag it over to our other screen.
As you can see, these are the exact
same results that we saw in the previous
examples before where we're trying
to understand that Churn Field and
then the level of association all these
potential predictor variables have to
that churned field.
It's going in descending order so
at the top is the most
associated variables with churn.
So the number of customer service calls.
Then the total international minutes,
then international charge etcetera.
What we're also able to see is those P
values are the statistical significance
that these variables
have to that churn field.
Simply the more stars the more
statistically significant they are.
And it looks like we have five variables
that are statistically significant and
I would examine them
more in the next section.
So this is the report
output that we saw before.
Now let's go to that interactive browse.
Inside this interactive browse, we have
two different parts, like we saw before.
We have a correlation matrix
on the left hand side.
And a scatter plot on
the right-hand side.
What we're looking for
are those three things.
Very red marks for positive correlators,
very little color for
no correlation, and blue for
negative correlation.
So let me just select on two
values against each other,
which this shows has a 1.00 correlation
between these two variables.
And as we see on the right hand
side the total night minutes and
the total night charge.
As you see the value was 1.00
meaning they are perfect
positive correlators within each other.
As well as you can see
on the Scatter Plot.
As one moves, the other one moves
directly in parallel with it.
These two things, I would assume,
are duplicate variables, then,
and we probably should include
both within our model.
The other thing that we can see
are two variables that are Have
very little correlation
between each other.
Like these 2, for example, have a 0.03
correlation between each other.
And so total day calls and
then total international minutes.
Since these are two potential
predictor variables.
We see that there's little to
no correlation between them.
Therefore, I can assume
that these are safe
to both use within that
predictive model later.
I'm able to determine that based off
the very low correlation number here
at 0.03, as well as,
in the scatter plot I see no real trends
within these two variables
against each other.
So this is an example of how
you're able to develop a workflow
to then view the correlation matrix,
the scatter plots and the report output
to determine the correlations between
your target variable and
your potential predictor variables.
And also examining if there's any
innercorrelation between your predictor
variables.